OK, I am recording so that I can take my notes later.
Alright, so um, as I said, the goal is kind of to think how we
can infuse the whole region with. Connections to see Demmer will
physically with the campus, and two. Of course the intellectual life and
everything that's going on here. So one question I'd love to hear
you just muse on is how can. How do you see?
How could you see CU Denver making itself
an indispensable asset to the Metro region? And of course, I'm asking you this.
From your position, both as a graduate student with us, but also in your work with all of these
different philanthropic organizations. So this question is about yeah, being an indispensable asset.
Yeah, and so I have a little bit of experience with similar partnerships.
When I was at the mining foundation that I'd love to incorporate here at the Denver Foundation,
we worked really closely at the Mining Foundation with FIU with Miami Dade College and to a lesser
extent with the University of Miami. But you know, if I, you and I was part of their strategic
planning process when the new President came in President Rosenberg
and they they were very interested in connection with Community. Because they are, as you know,
being from Miami, there physically distant from sort of the urban core out in more of
the western edge of the County. And so they really were intentional
about wanting to to just get embedded somehow into deeply into the community,
particularly the civic space. So they did a few things. First, they opened a campus on Brickel,
right in the heart of the financial district is like a business branch branch of Business School.
They have. I think several partnerships with Miami Dade County Public Schools. So they're doing,
you know whether it's an aquaponics lab in one of the high schools or you know,
sort of like dual enrollment types of things, with some of the high school students
they've been very intentional developing partnerships with the public school system.
You would often see President Rosenberg next to the Superintendent of Miami Dade
County Schools at events all over town, so that that that just elevated there. Their profile,
but also their sense of connectedness to the community. Because Miami Dade Public Schools,
as you know so deeply embedded throughout the entire Miami Dade County Community.
So I think my FIU has some some things that they've done that that CU
Denver might might look too as well. From the philanthropic standpoint.
We we had a leadership program. All of our leadership fellows would go through the Center for
leadership at FIU Knight Foundation, funded a number of things at FIU around journalism around
innovation around entrepreneurship. So the fact that they were able to embed so much in the in the
civic fabric of the Community also meant that they were making these philanthropic connections that
obviously serve the University and serve the broader community as well.
So it's. All kind of one in the same. You know these philanthropic connections,
I think just are born out of deep embeddedness by the institution in communities.
Yeah, that's such an interesting point, because AFAIU is similar to us in so many ways.
Like the students that it serves, the kinds of programs that has.
But then it's totally different from us physically in terms of the physical space,
whereas we really are at the center, at least geographically of the city. So Can you imagine anyways,
based on your experience there, that we could even better utilized our
physical space to make these connections? You're better positioned than
FY you, so if I you have done it successfully despite being geographically
distant from the urban core, and you know with traffic in
Miami like that's a big deal. Distant from the urban core,
getting in and out of downtown Miami tonight. So yeah, you all are better positioned.
I should say we since undergraduate so. Denver is is better positioned,
you know and a lot of it I think is just his presence. So certainly convenings.
I mean having you know an institution like CU. Denver has such an incredible
power of convening. In a post covid scenario where you could bring really interesting
and dynamic events to campus that you would be very intentional and and bringing community into
and and the other way around, going out into Community with presentations with speakers,
with Community collaborations etc. I mean, I I'd love to have academic
partners like CU Denver on some of the work that we want to do,
whether it's around economic opportunity, whether it's around climate,
I don't know, CU Denver's kind of. Portfolio of expertise quite as well since as you know,
I've only been here for a year and a half, but I have no doubt that there's going
to be areas there that are going to be in alignment with work that
we're doing at the Denver Foundation, where we could use some of the some of the knowledge that CU
Denver has some of the convening power that CU Denver might have. You know,
one of the things that we did in Miami was a indicators report on quality of life,
so we took seven different quality of life measures and we aggregated a bunch of data.
If I use a major partner in that. As a thought partner, you know helping to construct the
report and all of that stuff and then to disseminate it out and to have
conversations around these things. We would look to the Miami Dade's in the in the in the FI use to
help bring people together to talk about this this data, why it matters and then have people
run with it was all very open source. So the intention was for people to
do with it whatever they wanted in order to improve these different metrics. You know,
for a Community Foundation to do that, we don't have the bandwidth. We don't have the knowledge base,
but universities do, so we bring to the table with you know what we can bring.
But having that partner in an academic institution for foundation is indispensable.
I don't know that that happens as much here as it does in Miami.
Yeah, can you talk a little bit more about like the specific ways that
you'd like to see it happen in terms of you said one thing you said was
climate another thing you said was I think helped make opportunitie yeah with health I mean entries.
I assume that the Colorado Health Foundation and Andrews have have
quite a relationship with each other. You know, for the Denver Foundation.
One thing that we have to do is we have to look at the landscape and determine
OK where where is their saturation of philanthropic resources and expertise.
If we can add some additional value, great. If not, is there another area
where perhaps there isn't that saturation and we can really bring
you know some significant value add? So I mentioned climate, because I I,
I think there's such a tremendous opportunity in Colorado to do work around climate.
And I don't mean just climate change. Macro level, but things like climate justice.
I think it's going to be a bigger and bigger issue under this administration and and frankly should
be from a societal standpoint. I think an urban campus like CU Denver is really well positioned
to help with the research and with policy development and things like
that around what it means to have a community that embraces climate
justice is one of its guiding values. You know the definition would love
to be involved and participate in developing that body of work and promoting it out.
Outside even of the Metro Denver area, I think that's something that has national scope. Potentially.
What we do here, I think, and can easily translate to to what's happening in other places.
Other large urban areas that are also, if they're not already, they're gonna start grappling with
issues around climate justice very soon. Yeah, that is a really great point.
Yeah, that's a great point. Um, you had phrases about innovation and one of the things that I wanted
to say at the beginning is. And this is actually now a critique of Miami.
I felt like every time the word innovation came up in Miami, it meant tech and entrepreneurship.
And in my mind like innovation can be so much more expensive than that.
And I think CU, Denver should embrace that. So we're talking about client
talking about climate justice, like there's an opportunity to be really innovative there,
not by inventing a nap. Now by creating a new business, but just by thinking about
these things in different ways, talking about them in different ways. And one of the things I always
talked about was what was? Climate gentrification and does not. I didn't coin that term,
but it's something that as when I talk about it here, people have never heard of that. Well,
as you know that's happening in Miami, where people in little Haiti are
being displaced because it happens to be just slightly above sea level
and like everything else in Miami. And so climate gentrification is
something that I think we ought to be talking about here in Denver.
Again with the knowledge base that institutionally CU Denver would have like that brings so much more
credibility to a philanthropic effort to promote that conversation. Absolutely wrapped around this
theme of innovation. Yeah, that makes me think like you know.
I mean, I actually am doing work on climate gentrification and so this just
makes me think like how do so then? Really this is not about doing new work.
This is about better making the connection so that we know that the
work is being done or that we can build on work that is being done.
So beyond just like, say, funding that work, how do those this is really? Sophomore question.
How do those links be? Tween philanthropy and research. Happened beyond,
just like funding mechanisms, but you have to also understand that we were not a private foundation,
so as a Community Foundation, we're a nonprofit group 501C3. What that means is that we have the
ability to involve ourselves in policy to a degree that private foundations don't.
So we went through strategic planning last year, by the way,
and one of the main pillars that we will be launching publicly in a couple of weeks is.
It will be much more intentional about our policy work. I'm hiring a director of policy right now,
so that's shaping policy that's advocating for policy, whether it's local, state, whatever,
so a Community Foundation just is a different animal within the philanthropic landscape,
we absolutely go beyond just writing checks. And we want to be in the in the
solutions creation business. Yeah, huh? Yeah, that's really interesting.
You know this is a world philanthropy as well that I don't know as much
about beyond the writing checks part beyond the the, you know, applying for grant monies part.
So is there anything about like our unique urban setting that helps us?
You know, leverage our place to contribute to these kinds of efforts. Policy making.
Yeah, I mean, you're also just like us and a few blocks from the Capitol,
so it's not just about local policy making, it's the ability to influence state policy making.
And I mean the credibility that you know someone with the CU Denver would have
at a committee meeting at the capital. Or you know, helping to draft legislation? I mean, I've got.
I think it's pretty pretty immense, so I think you absolutely ought to be leveraging that,
and it needs to come in form, not just from an academic standpoint. I think this is where
the partnership comes in. From from a community knowledge standpoint.
So. At every point, the fact that you're doing all the stakeholder outreach I think, is fantastic.
I would suggest that CU Denver consider embedding that into the very strategic vision for the next
10 years on an ongoing basis. Don't just listen on the front end plugin what you receive and then
off you go like make it a reccuring sort of part of this vision is to always be connected and always
be listening to what's going on. I think then you just have even more credibility when you're in the
policy making space when you're, you know. Lobbying legislators or whatever
for something that has bubbled up from this grassroots listening. Mechanism,
so I think I think you're incredibly well positioned to be a force in.
In the Denver area, and I think in the state of Colorado is so much smaller than than Florida
and I get to send so much easier to have influence from Denver. Then you know Miami does
reasonably Tallahassee.
I completely agree with this kind of vision of community engagement as not a one time,
you know, in and out kind of thing, But this ongoing conversation and
stakeholders as an ongoing stakeholder. So, um. If I could ask you to dream a little bit,
how could you invite like, what would you envision?
As for a CU Denver campus? It's both the you know,
the physical space, but you know the. The identity of the campus in 20-30.
At that time you will you, will you know, could be a graduate of C Denver?
You know, as well as maybe a partner with them.
What kinds of things do you imagine?
First, I was blown away when I got here and
I saw the the Aurora campus and the fact that it houses all three of these institutions.
I don't know how common that is in the United States. I've never seen it,
but I think that's really incredible. I've actually gotten to know the new
President CCD, who's from South Florida? By the way, she's a Latina from South Florida.
Madelena forgot her name. Really dynamic leader and so part part
I guess what I'm what I'm getting to is part of it is I'd like to see
all three of those institutions really be a tremendous force and a tremendous magnet for innovation,
but just just thought. Leadership culture, you know, I think there ought to be sort of
a cultural footprint that that that this campus has or the community. I mean, campuses all over the
country are often draws from a cultural standpoint as well. So what needs to happen?
For that to be developed, and here is their ability to have you know, some kind of. Art.
I don't want to see museum but whatever. Some kind of Gallery or something
that brings in artists that brings in, you know, spoken word and poetry and it
just constant vibrancy, being driven by art and culture. I think there's a tremendous opportunity
for this campus to to have that. And I mean, in my mind, CCD is is the is probably the one
that is initially most rooted in Community and I'm thinking along
the lines of Miami Dade College. But unlike in Miami, my sense is that there's a real
deep partnership between CU, Denver and CKD and Metro. And so how do you not just about
leveraging CU Denver's position? But how do you leverage these other partnerships?
I think CCP can help bring more of community onto that campus that then CU.
Denver can can further leverage. So I would be looking at this more holistically than just what does
C Denver look like in 10 years? What is that entire?
I have to say I think it's a tremendous, tremendously exciting opportunity
to create something unique in the dynamic urban setting. This place is also changed.
That's why I came here because Denver is growing and changing, and you know all the vibrancy
and everything that's going on. It brought me here. It's bringing thousands of people
as you know here every single year. But I don't know that there's a magnet for like the intellectual
life of Denver right now,
in the way that this campus can become that.
Yeah, can you? How could? Well, if it were a magnet for intellectual life, what do you?
How do you see that? I hate to keep referring to Miami,
but you know, Miami Dade College has the book fair. They have the Film Festival like they
have these things that bring just incredible people from around the world.
You know to this campus that is right smack dab in the middle of downtown Miami.
So it brings everybody to downtown Miami. I think that's exactly what we have the
potential doing this on this campus. Great point in the book, fair, you know the streets
are literally just filled. With people, it's my favorite week of the year, man. Yeah, that's awesome.
Alright, so let me let me wrap up by asking you the obligatory covid question,
which is like, you know in this time. Of the pandemic, when all of our you
know concepts of work and life and transportation have been disrupted,
how does that shape or how Can you imagine the campus of the future in those terms?
What does that look like? Or does does that change your vision of the of our campus of the future?
What you've gone through you know that last semester and this semester with remote learning,
but also you know your own work. Yeah, by the way. Remote learning has made it much
easier for me to be able to do these classes then if it had been in
person in person just because of, you know, my professional life and
personal life and all that stuff so. I would say yeah, it is gonna change it,
not just for CU Denver but for everybody in the academic arena and in the professional arena.
I mean, I'm working right now with my HR person, an myops person to talk about what the
office environment looks like post cover, and I've said like not only doing that,
do not expect everybody to be in the office five days a week for everything.
I don't want everybody in the office five days a week for carriage like that that to me.
Sounds like such a waste of people's energy and time and everything else.
Let's just get creative about how we create a much more flexible environment.
I missed the opportunity to come together with people and mist of what happens
when you collaborate in a group setting, etc. So we definitely want to have that
again once we're post covid but but it's not like we were doing that 40
hours a week like people mostly are in their offices doing whatever they do.
Or they can do that from home just as well. So I think I think it's about tremendous flexibility.
It's about. Maximizing the the platforms, some of which we've thrown together,
or at least we've learned how to become expert in. Forced to do so because of covid.
So let's just develop that a little further, and so I would challenge CU Denver
to think not only with the campus of the future looks like what does the
office of the Future look like like, how can you all help inform you, know,
through your business schools and sociology Department, etc. What work life ought to be looking like.
And you know, maybe you all convene with with the Chamber of Commerce about what post
covid office life looks like based on your sociological understanding and
your business understanding everything else. Those are the types of things
where it takes you just so think outside of just the campus bubble. What you all do.
What you all determine will probably have an impact on what others do,
not just in the academic space, but other organizations who are
looking to anchor organizations to say. What do we do? But when the Kobe thing happened,
I mean, I'm calling the head of the Colorado Health Foundation. I'm calling it a few people that
I knew so far in town. I'm like what is, what do we? What do I do? Do I close here?
Like houses work? I've never lived through this and there we have it either,
but here's what we're doing. So the point is people reach out to look to anchor institutions
at these moments of inflection, to help guide the path forward. CU Denver is absolutely an anchor
institution with the knowledge and the and the expertise. To be able to to light a
path towards the future, just think beyond the campus walls to tell all of us what we should be
thinking about in the post Covid world.
Down. Yeah, this is all been awesome. Do you have any other?
Do you have any fun? Any any other thoughts that anything they haven't covered about you know?
See you never being that anchor? The innovation of cultural life of anything about our any
just wishes for our future.
Well, I I I'm sure that I will be completely invested in the success of this vision.
And you know what you are hoping to accomplish for CU Denver future.
So I want to be a part of that. The extent that I that I can so
consider me an ongoing partner and you know again at the Denver Foundation,
I'd very much love to to find ways to work
collaboratively towards creating a better. Region, which I think is what all
of us are sort of aspiring towards.
[no speech detected]
I guess you know and thinking about the the
long term future for for the institution.
Right now we're getting ready to to celebrate their 100th anniversary.
And what I want our 100th Anniversary Edition is about the next 100 years. Will do it.
Tip of the cap to the last 100 years. But we really want to think that far out into the future.
So and I understand 10 year strategic visioning and planning and stuff like that.
But really, CU Denver should be preparing itself to be here for the next 100 years,
helping to fill this community in in a meaningful way. So I think that's a tremendously exciting
opportunity and I would encourage people to be thinking in that type of really bold, grandiose way.
OK, so final final question. When you say like you know, I imagine that say the Colorado
Foundation will continually be connected or will be more connected. What kinds of specific things
make those connections easier for someone in your position? Yeah, so it's two things you know.
Just to borrow certain over overused phrases, grass, grass roots and grass tops.
So we we have a program called strengthening neighborhoods, which is exactly what it means.
We invest in at the neighborhood level. A lot of community organizing support. We support, you know,
grassroots organizations that are coming together to help save the park on the
corner or the neighborhood or whatever. I mean. So a lot of that really
rooted neighborhood work. But then. Me and other folks on the leadership team spend a lot of time.
Sort of. You know, with specific leadership and serving on things that the
mayor asked me to serve on. And you know, going to chamber things that I'm
supposed to be at so that that civic connectivity I think is also important
for the Community Foundation is important to be connected at both sides,
and I would say for CU Denver, it's exact same analysis. So folks at CU Denver should be involved
at that civic leadership level and serving on those committees and and and
on those boards and all that kind of stuff. And by the way, this is something that Mark Rosenberg.
He does better than anybody. I mean, he isn't all of those rooms where
civic leaders are meeting in Miami. CU Denver needs to be plugged in there
and then find those opportunities to partner at that very deep grassroots level.
And again, CCD might be really important partner in this regard, but there's in the school district.
There's all sorts of organizations working throughout. Then you know, this given given sort of,
you know your focus from an economic perspective. Those grassroots social impact organizations
I think are great partners that keep you. Rooted, but you can't you shouldn't, I shouldn't. I can't.
You shouldn't do one or the other.
I think you gotta do both to be successful.
Thank you, thank you for all of your insights. This is then awesome.
I'm learning so much from this process. That's great, and by the way, I love that you are involved in
the climate gentrification stuff, 'cause honestly every time I say that phrase here in Denver,
I had to explain what I mean. Yeah, we can talk quite a bit more about
the kinds of things that that we and my research team have found here in Denver.
Of course, it's related specifically to manufactured housing, but when you think of that as our
largest source of affordable housing, you recognize just just how precarious
affordable housing is post disaster, and a lot of that for clarity doesn't
come from the disaster itself. It comes from the regulations that get triggered afterwards.
You know the clean up after that in. In the ways that so many communities
have been either grandfathered in and then they are exposed to new
regulations and hurt in the process. So so law and regulations key there. So we're very early
on this path. But assuming that my board to the green lights moving in the direction of this clan,
it space would love to follow up an you know, maybe just ask you to point me in the
right direction since I'm new here, I don't know a lot of the players.
I started getting a little know a little bit around the sort of the more well
known environmental organizations. Um, like Nature Conservancy, those types of folks.
But really, I want to put more of this climate justice lens on it, so would love to have
that conversation. Yeah, definitely, and we will. Can I ask you to class related things? Sure.